What is software documentation:
    Everything we write/record to assist in development or usage of software.
    There many types of different documentation.
    Documentation is difficult to write.
    As you develop the software, documentation should be developed as well.
    Very often the documentation becomes outdated, which does no help.

Why do we need documentation:
    Maintenance:
        Project are very long lived with incoming new developers.
        Usually the knowledge of the system stays in developer's mind.
        And with the turnover of developers the knowledge of the system is lost.
    Understanding:
        When project has proper documentation, the communication becomes easier.
        Written documentation allows better analysis of the system, allows you to update that documentation.
        Written documentation is easier for non technical users to understand.

Useful tools for documentation:
    Comments in code:
        Developer documentation
        Controversial topic
        Code should be readable without any comments   
    Api documentation:
        Usually front-end developers do not know what endpoints, contracts returns do apis provide.
        Front-end and back-end developers have to communicate on what back-end provides.
        Back-end does need documentation on what it provides.
        There many tools that help with this.
        OpenApi is a standard of how api should expose documentation.
        Swagger is the most common tool to document your api.
    Readme
        Most of the development repositories have readme.md
        Git Readmes are written using MarkDown language
        Readme should have info about:
            basic project, how to starts, who is the author, how to contact development and etc.
    
    Github:
        Full ecosystem of project documentation:
            Readme.md
            Issues
            Discussions

    Confluence:
        Commercial tool developed by the same company which developed Jira.
        Enterprise grade solution for bigger commercial applications.
        Rich plugin interface.